Let's now get a little deeper into
how attention works by creating some
components for each input that's are
useful for quick information retrieval.
First, though,
I'll give you some intuition for
information retrieval, then move on
to discussing the components used for
calculating attention weights,
called keys, queries, and values.
Before getting deeper into attention
territory, here's some intuition for
how information retrieval works
in the context of attention.
Say you've lost your keys and
have spent a lot of time going over each
meter of your room looking for them.
This is time-consuming and inefficient.
Wisely, you ask your mom
to help you find them.
She thinks for a moment waiting up all
the possibilities for where the keys could
be based on what she already knows
about where they usually are.
Then, she tells you
the likeliest place to look.
Behold, she's right, there are your keys.
And then nutshell,
this is what attention is doing.
Taking a query, selecting the place
where the highest likelihood to look for
the key, then finding the key.
Now, let's peek under the hood
to see that in action.
The attention mechanism uses encoded
representations of both the input or
the encoder hidden states and
the outputs or the decoder hidden states.
The keys and values are pairs.
Both of dimension N,
where N is the input sequence length and
comes from the encoder hidden states.
Keys and values have their
own respective matrices, but
the matrices have the same shape and
are often the same.
While the queries come from
the decoder hidden states,
both the key value pair and
the query enter the attention
layer from their places on
opposite ends of the model.
And once they're inside, the dot product
of the querying and the key is calculated.
This is essentially a measure
of similarity between them, and
the dot product of similar vectors
tends to have a higher value.
The weighted sum given to each value
is determined by the probability that
the key matches the query.
Probability as you might recall,
can be determined by running the attention
wait through the softmax, so
there transform to fit a distribution
of numbers between zero and one.
Then, the query is mapped to the next
key value pair and so on and so forth.
This so
is called scale dot product attention.
Now, let's visualize how the attention
weights look in matrix form.
You have all the inputs or
words of 1, query Q is columns and
the words of the keys (K) as the rows.
That's value score that you'll remember
as the weighted sum from the previous
slide is indicated here in a lighter shade
of gray to show the highest score and
therefore the match.
I've included this one equation just to
help you get familiar with how it looks,
but don't worry,
you'll be getting much cozier with the
math behind attention in upcoming weeks.
Here's an example that shows where the
model is looking when translating between
English and German,
as you'll be doing in your assignments.
In this rather straightforward example,
attention is first translating the English
word how, into the German word wie.
When attention is translating,
the word are,
is looking at the word sind, and so on.
An important thing to keep in mind is
that the model should be flexible enough
to connect each English word
with its relevant German word,
even if they do not appear in the same
position in their respective sentences.
In other words, it should be flexible
enough to handle differences in
grammar and
word ordering in different languages.
So, even though in this example the word
how, is the first word in the English
sentence and the word wie is also
the first word in the German sentence.
The attention model should still be able
to find a connection between the two
words, even if the grammar.
And one language requires a different word
ordering, then the other language does.
In the matrix,
the lighter square shows where the model
is actually looking when making
the translation of that word.
I'll show you how to build
an attention matrix like this one.
You will learn how to properly
interpret the attention matrix and
how to use it to make
the word predictions.
In a situation like the one I just
mentioned, where the grammar of foreign
language requires a difference
word order than the other,
the attention is so
flexible enough to find the connection.
The first four tokens, the agreements
on the, are pretty straightforward,
but then the grammatical structure
between French and English changes.
Now instead of looking at
the corresponding fifth token to translate
the French word zone, the attention knows
to look further down at the eighth token,
which corresponds to the English
word area, glorious and necessary.
It's pretty amazing,
was a little matrix multiplication can do.
To recap all the new concepts, attention
is a layer of calculations that let
your model focus on the most important
parts of the sequence for each step.
Queries, values, and keys
are representations of the encoder and
decoder hidden states.
And they're used to retrieve information
inside the attention layer by calculating
similarity between the decoder queries and
the encoder key value pairs.
This is them is so flexible, it can even
find matches between languages with very
different grammatical structures or
alphabets.
Congrats on absorbing
all these new concepts.
In the next video, I'll be talking
about neural machine translation and
show you what the setup looks like for
this system.
I'll show you what the data
set looks like and
also be talking about the steps required
for pre-processing your data sets.